# NRPyElliptic
``NRPyElliptic`` [[Assumpcao et. al., arXiv:gr-qc/2111.02424](https://arxiv.org/abs/2111.02424)] is a new, extensible elliptic solver that sets up initial data (ID) for numerical relativity (NR) using the same numerical methods employed for solving hyperbolic evolution equations. Specifically, ``NRPyElliptic`` implements the hyperbolic relaxation method of [[Rüter et. al., arXiv:gr-qc/1708.07358](https://arxiv.org/abs/1708.07358)] to solve complex nonlinear elliptic PDEs for NR ID. The hyperbolic PDEs are evolved forward in (pseudo)time, resulting in an exponential relaxation of the arbitrary initial guess to a steady state that coincides with the solution of the elliptic system. ``NRPyElliptic`` solves these equations on highly efficient numerical grids exploiting underlying symmetries in the physical scenario. To this end, ``NRPyElliptic`` is built within the [SymPy](https://peerj.com/articles/cs-103/)-based [``NRPy+``](https://nrpyplus.net/) framework, which facilitates the solution of hyperbolic PDEs on Cartesian-like, spherical-like, cylindrical-like, or bispherical-like numerical grids. For the purposes of setting up BBH puncture ID, ``NRPyElliptic`` makes use of the latter.  This repository hosts the following:  `Tutorial-NRPyElliptic_BasicEquations.ipynb`: documents the hyperbolized Hamiltonian constraint equation under the CTT formalism `Tutorial-Start_to_Finish-NRPyElliptic.ipynb`: documents the C code generation for the standalone version of `NRPyElliptic` `Tutorial-ETK_thorn-NRPyEllipticET.ipynb`: documents the Einstein Toolkit thorn version of `NRPyElliptic` `NRPyElliptic_Ccodes`: trusted C code directory against which
